Unix assignment -3
----------------------
1: What is a shell?

In Unix, the shell is a program that interprets commands and acts as an intermediary between the user and the inner workings of the operating system. It provides a command line interface called the shell prompt or command prompt.




2: What are the different types of commonly used shells  on a typical linux system?In UNIX there are two major types of shells:

The Bourne shell. If you are using a Bourne-type shell, the default prompt is the $ character.

The C shell. If you are using a C-type shell, the default prompt is the % character.

There are again various subcategories for Bourne Shell which are listed as follows ?

Bourne shell ( sh)

Korn shell ( ksh)

Bourne Again shell ( bash)

POSIX shell ( sh)

The different C-type shells follow ?

C shell ( csh)

TENEX/TOPS C shell ( tcsh)





3: What is the significance of $?

The prompt, $, which is called command prompt, is issued by the shell. While the prompt is displayed, you can type a command. The shell reads our input after we press Enter.
For example:-
               $date
               Thu Jun 25 08:30:19 MST 2009 





4: I want to create a directory such that anyone in the group can create a file and access any person’s file in it but none should be able to delete a file other than the one created by himself.

If someone has write permission to your home directory, they can rename or delete your file and put a new file in its place. So, as per the question, the permissions that i should use are as follows :-

                       chmod 755  




5: What are zombie processes?

On Unix and Unix-like computer operating systems, a zombie process or defunct process is a process that has completed execution (via the exit system call) but still has an entry in the process table: it is a process in the "Terminated state".





6: How will you copy file from one machine to other?

To copy a file from B to A while logged into B:
      scp /path/to/file username@a:/path/to/destination

To copy a file from B to A while logged into A:
        scp username@b:/path/to/file /path/to/destination






7: How to get last line from a file ?

         $ tail -1 filename




8: How to get first line from a file ?

        

9: What is Kernel?
10: Differentiate multiuser from multitask.


